he's public enemy number one as far as
China's concern the man who identified
and articulated perhaps before anyone
else in the financial and policy circles
the looming threat posed to us the
United States of America by the Chinese
mr. Steve Bannon Steve Bannon the chief
executive of Donald Trump's 2016
campaign and later the chief strategist
to the president has founded China for
its predatory economic policies policies
he believes that must be corrected well
now China is launching its own attack on
him with Chinese state TV declaring
Steve Bannon is the true enemy of the
United States here now to respond in his
first interview since China started
launching all these political and
personal attacks on him mr. Steve ban
and himself live from Paris France
tonight good to have you here Steve
welcome Trish thanks for having me on
tonight and I appreciate you staying up
late because I know it's pretty late
like do a I'm over there in France I do
want to get to one of the reasons why
you're there which is the elections but
let's get to the China stuff first
starting on the other side of the world
if you would the Chinese are saying that
you sir are hurting America that you're
the problem you are the demon I believe
it was the quote how do you respond to
that well I think it's interesting you
know both CCTV which is the BBC of China
and also the Global Times which is their
tabloid of the People's Daily which they
used to attack I think this is the first
time I think in living memory they've
ever gone after a private citizen it
shows you how to ervice they are they
understand that President Trump it fully
gets the economic war that they've been
running on the industrial democracies
particularly the United States for
twenty years and they're an absolute
shock that Donald Trump stood up to them
and said hey I'm not gonna sign some
trade deal which which we don't have you
commit to start to restructure your
economy to fit into the world's economy
and really it stopped this economic war
both on technology front and on the
force technology transfers and subsidies
of state-owned industries all of it
Trump's deal with Bob light Heiser's was
a very well thought through strategic
deal they're in panic
the reason Donald Trump is president
Trish and you see him up in Pennsylvania
tonight is that the working people in
the country that applause understood
that the elites in our country were
having manage decline you can see that
here in Western Europe you certainly see
it in the United States and they
rejected that the Chinese drafted off
that for 20 years and in fact Wall
Street the City of London and the
corporatist they all made a ton of money
shipping the jobs the high value-added
jobs over to China they were not
prepared to have a guy like Donald Trump
say hey we're not doing this deal we're
gonna get down to it and actually you're
gonna have to commit to stop the
cheating or I have to commit to stop the
theft you're gonna have to commit to act
like a good global citizen and so now
you see him striking out today
interestingly enough after they attacked
me over the weekend
leha the chief negotiator and president
she went to a rare earths one of the
largest rare earth producers in China I
think to send a signal to the United
States that this economic war is about
to go to another level so China's
playing the long game
right I mean they they've got a plan for
the next hundred years we have a plan
effectively for the next you know a
couple of years and if President Trump
is re-elected then the plan for the next
six years or so so I guess my question
is how much pain can can our economy
withstand if in fact were affected by
this thus far Steve we've been in pretty
good shape right you look at the GDP
numbers you look at the job the job
numbers all of that has been good but if
it starts to turn to the Chinese sit
back and say hey I told you so
and then do we run the risk of maybe
caving to some of that economic and
political pressure you know the the
backbone of this country the the working
men and women have been through a lot
and have you know through the 20th
century have supported the policy makers
in the direction of the country I think
what's most important is what you see is
that you're seeing it coming together
right now those numbers you just talked
about remember that the the drop in
import prices the increase to the 32.2
over the to point to economic growth
this is all because of Trump's plan it's
coming to fruition we're seeing a
decrease in the trade deficit we're
seeing the import prices come down and
so you're starting to see you see an
employment coming down you're seeing the
fact
what Trump's doing his long game and I
think it's longer than a couple of years
he's bringing the supply chain back to
the west and that is where the heart of
this this breaks made in China 2025
which is the heart of this thing which
was advanced chip design artificial
intelligence and robotics which China
was trying to basically steal our
technology become a dominant high-end
manufacturer Trump is breaking that
right now and I think you can say I
think this I think this game is a lot
longer played and you see today if you
read the front page of the Financial
Times you now have Dan coats and the
intelligence groups going around to the
venture capital firms the private equity
firms the corporation's the Silicon
Valley and starting to walk people
through the threats to of Huawei and
some of these others and that is driven
by both Senator Marco Rubio and Senator
Mark Warner the Democrats I believe
you're seeing a coming together with the
tweets of Chuck Schumer Nancy Pelosi I
think you're seeing people like Rubio in
Capitol Hill it's been a sea change over
the last two years that's Trump's
leadership and not backing down
so you're seeing now I think the country
coming together I think we're now having
with Mike Pence's speech you're seeing
on all forces of government start to go
this is not about the Chinese people the
Chinese people the ones that have been
absolutely you know blown apart by this
this is a hundred percent of the CCP
this radical cadre of the CCP that's
been doing this so I think you're seeing
a coming together they say they can play
the long game I don't think they've got
the bullets in the chamber I look at the
enormous rise right in the Chinese
economy and you can go back it really
started under Bill Clinton and I'm not
you know I'm not pointing the blame
towards anyone specific here because it
continued really under both parties and
American business benefited from that
American businesses liked that right
because they wanted to have a presence
in China and the thought being gosh you
get a billion people over there you want
to have access to that market and so
CEOs who are interested in that you know
the daily stock price and quarterly
earnings are thinking I need to be in
that market is this the place where you
need government to step in because
market forces would be more selfishly
driven in that the CEO wants the
earnings that their debt from China
could get from China and may be willing
to risk a lot and sacrifice a lot this
is the heart of it this
the heart of economic nationalism in
fact they really weren't just looking
for the Chinese market the central part
of this and you're too polite and too
nice to call them out so I will this is
the permanent political class this is
not about party this was both
Republicans and Democrats this is from
Clinton to Bush to Obama this is all the
Wall Street faction this is the
corporate just the simple the first
thing they wanted was the ship the
manufacturing jobs oh they want a
cheaper labor okay they wanted they
wanted access to Chinese market
ultimately this is about cheap labor
this is why throughout the world what
China exports the most is deflation and
overcapacity and we've allowed them to
do that okay that's why you haven't had
wages rise in Japan in Western Europe or
the United States this is all part of
the kind of party of Davos of their
economic plan which they benefited from
remember in this manage decline by our
elites the elites did fine
okay and in the financial crisis when
they bail themselves out is the working
people throughout Europe in the United
States in Japan that have taken it on
the chin and this was a this was a well
thought through business model and it
worked for people they were never called
out they were never called out until
Donald Trump won the 2016 campaign in
the Upper Midwest with Reagan Democrats
and low propensity voters in the
deplorable zs-- those are the people
that had his back and they they know
that jobs left the opioids came in and
it was destroying the heart of this
country this is what this is about and
this is why Trump has showed such
political courage and doing this and the
pressure on him has been tremendous had
been more pressure from the Republicans
the free traders and here's the here's
the insanity of it so China is a
totalitarian surveillance mercantilist
business model state capitalism with big
government it's not a free trader at all
you can't get in there right and and and
this we've had this free-trade mentality
and this happy talk for years the other
thing is look at all the false scare
tactics Wall Street use in leading up
this the market was gonna implode is
gonna go down 2,000 points economy's
gonna plug it's just like the scare
tactics that were used what Donald Trump
won the presidency and they said the
mark was gonna implode okay
the fear project turned out to be y2k
the economy's actually doing is going
strongly right there's been a few
perturbations to the market but it's
basically a break-even and I tell you
what I think Trump's very focused and I
in his speech night in Pennsylvania I
think he'll reiterate this but this is
the beating heart this is the single
most important thing you'll do in his
presidency this is his Reagan moment
this is a major inflection point in
world history it's a major inflection
point in American history which is why
the Chinese are so mad at him in and
also at you let me ask about what's
going on in Europe and we'll continue
this conversation here I mean you've got
also a working class there that said oK
we've had enough this isn't fair
we've we've gotten the short end of this
stick what is it that we should know
about Europe as we think about how the
US is going to react in 2020 I think you
see look Briggs it was the forerunner to
the 2016 Trump election I think you're
seeing here you saw in Australia the
other night a populace of you know it
was a victory at the very last second
and I think you're seeing here momentum
building for these populist nationalist
sovereignty parties I think the momentum
is building I'm here in France where
marine lepen has come back and a
tremendous comeback when she's defeated
by McCrone Xie McCrone or an actual dead
heat for these European parliamentary
elections he's made it a referendum on
himself in Italy salvini is leading I
think with over 30% of the vote you've
got orb on all the populist parties
including Nigel Faraj who has a party he
just started about five or six weeks ago
called brexit which is polling right now
Trish higher than Labour and dick Tory
party combined so you're seeing a real
revolution here in in Europe and as they
it's the exact same thing as the United
States working-class people that are
tired of the central government in
Brussels and what I call this party of
Davos the financial managerial
engineering scientific elite that have
you know one of the call all the shots
and had let this migrant issue really
eviscerate the working class in Italy
and France you're seeing people fight
back and I got to tell you next Sunday I
think we're going to have a political
earthquake in in Europe just like they
had a political earthquake when Donald
Trump won in November 2016 Wow